#  DEMS7 Interview Notes
Interview conducted over the phone 23 July 2018

*DEMS7 is a librarian at a large county library (serving >250K people). The county includes a large city as well as colleges and universities. Both the city and county publish some open data. Another data portal generated by a university/community partnership covers the surrounding county, using various data sources.*

## How library became involved
- Another managing librarian applied to participate [*how did that person learn about DEMS*] and DEMS7 was tapped to lead instruction, probably due to experience with business and career development (which is often research-based). 

## What Data Equity activities they undertook
- DEMS7 has led two rounds of classes, one in April 2018 aimed specifically at the business/economic development community and marketed by a separate business-related nonprofit, and another in July 2018 aimed at the general public (marketed through events calendar, social media, an event magazine, possibly a press release). 
- April classes were attended by about 7 participants. July classes were attended by two.
- The library doesn't have current plans for future classes. 

## What went well 
- DEMS7 combined Classes 1&2, and Classes 3&4, to create two classes. The tailored curriculum spent a little less time on metadata (which DEMS7 believes interests librarians more than it does many users) and less time on Class 4 content such as giving feedback. The classes focused primarily on what open data is, where to find and how to use it -- along with exploring on one's own -- which DEMS7 believes is more in line with user interests.
- Participants seemed enthusiastic about what they learned.
- Generating maps and charts was an especially popular part of the classes.
- The July students drove across town to participate in the class -- which the library knew because it recently added zip codes to some of its assessment tools!

## What could have gone better
- The April classes were marketed by a separate local nonprofit focused on business and economic development. The nonprofit pitched the classes as being more focused on marketing research, and the class participants had expected different material. 
- Although class participants were asked to bring a laptop or request one for the library, many April class participants didn't do either. So they simply had to watch demonstrations rather than follow along or explore themselves. (DEMS7 made sure July class participants had a device.)

## Plans for next open-data steps?
- No plans for future classes at this point.

## Does library publish open data?
- [Although library publishes meetings minutes on its website, it doesn't appear to publish open datasets about itself.]

## Does library work with local government on open data publishing?
- Not to DEMS7's knowledge.

## Does open-data programming fit the demands of the library's service community?
- DEMS7 says the library doesn't necessarily get a lot of research-based queries from patrons, not in class or at the information desk. Library classes and events tend to focus on activities that are fun or recreational (e.g., knitting, music appreciation) rather than research-based. The local population most likely to have research-based queries are those connected to the area's colleges and universities, and these institutions may better serve those patrons through their own academic libraries.
- Overall DEMS7 does think open data fits the library's mission and is a good focus for now.
- DEMS7 doesn't think open data is coming up very often on the reference desk. It's a valuable tool to know, DEMS7 said, but the reference desk isn't getting many reference questions now for which open data would be a resource. 
- The business/economic development community is a natural target group for open data, DEMS7 said. 


