#  ODL: ND5 Interview notes

*ND5 is a data analyst and instructor for a large (> 250K patrons) municipal library. Both the city and the surrounding county publish open data. The city and surrounding area have many residents who work for technology companies. The area also includes many colleges and universities, and a Code for America chapter.* 

## Does the library publish data about itself?
- Yes. As a municipal agency, the library is subject to a mayoral executive order from several years ago, calling for all city data to be made as accessible as possible (while protecting privacy, security and quality).
- The library spent a lot of time thinking about what data would be interesting and useful to publish. (The checkout files have been viewed more than 2K times, at least as much as some financial or permitting datasets elsewhere on the portal.)
- The library publishes datasets about inventory and checkouts. Other city datasets also include the library -- for example, surveys of cultural spaces. 

## How does publishing open data affect the library's perspective on open data?
- The library has experienced both the reward and frustration of publishing open data. 
- The library understands from experience the challenges of trying to select data that particularly interests the public, and present it with appropriate context. 
- The library understands privacy challenges involved in selecting and publishing data -- for example, choosing not to publish the location of time-stamped checkouts, since this information could be combined with other information to identify who had checked out particular items (which would violate library confidentiality standards).
- The library understands the benefits of complete metadata, and fills in fields comprehensively. (The library could help other departments understand the value of providing comprehensive metadata, although this isn't part of the current arrangement.) 
- Staff recently noticed a visualization of library data on social media, which must have been generated by user who downloaded the open dataset -- exactly the sort of use intended by publication. The library also got a request for some extra metadata from data science platform Kaggle, so the data is getting attention. 
- Library middle managers were anxious about data being "misinterpreted" -- a common concern among non-library city departments called to publish open data. On the one hand, ND5 said, even good metadata doesn't necessarily provide the interpretation that the library might want -- a dataset might simply show that acquisitions have gone down, without showing that funding had dropped. On the other hand, concerns about misinterpretation can be answered with, "That's what starts a conversation. Respond to what they've misinterpreted. ...Provide context. Sometimes context is storytelling. Sometimes it's, well, maybe you don't have enough open data, and you ought to publish some additional datasets which would [provide context]." The library did not avoid publishing any dataset based on concerns about how the data would make the library look, ND5 said.
- Uploading data was also extremely cumbersome, because the library has a separate domain than most other city departments (as many other municipal libraries do). At times, for example, the library actually had to have someone at the city send form questions by email, rather than filling out the electronic form directly. 

## Does the library advise other city departments about publishing open data?
- Not so far. The library has simply been another data publisher.
- But interaction between the library and other city departments has steadily grown, from practically none a decade ago, ND5 said.
- City departments get more than 10K records requests a year. Open data is one promising means of reducing records requests. 
- The library's open information commitment and experience may benefit other city departments, ND5 said, noting that it's possible the library gets reduced record requests because patrons can get the information via email to the library. The library received relatively few records requests relative to other departments.

## Has the library provided instruction on using open data?
- The library generated and conducted two open data workshops in 2017, one for the general public and one for staff. 
- The workshop for the general public was underattended, with two or three people showing up. This was after promoting the workshop not only through the usual channels (flyers, library calendar of events), but personally inviting members of 20 community-based groups involved in social justice. 
- The general public workshop itself seemed "like it fell flat," ND5 said. The library doesn't have any current plans for future classes. Users have a wide range of skills and interests when it comes to data, with some capable of digesting and transforming data, and others simply consumers of someone else's storytelling. ND5 wonders if open data is something that is better suited to "just in time" help at a reference desk, with a research librarian. 
- By contrast, an open data workshop for staff attracted more than 50 reference/subject librarians, including a few from other public library systems. The reception was enthusiastic, and the library received a few thank-you emails. The library has not tracked how the attending librarians are using open data in their work. 

## Based on this experience with open data, what is the library's ideal role in advancing open data?
- ND5 wonders if energy might not be best directed toward improving internal data management and data sharing, within the library and other city departments, to support quality improvement and allow departments to share data relevant to everyone. Using data this way also means people see the benefits of spending time on data management; with open-data publishing, publishing agencies often don't see the impact, apart from measuring views or downloads. (For example, the library could examine whether its efforts to reach under-served populations are resulting in more checkouts or new library cards.)
- ND5 said it might be interesting to use open data analysis to generate a reader's advisory list, using proximity scores among titles checked out by one patron or another. But the library must take care to demonstrate its commitment to confidentiality -- just knowing that patrons have any kind of an identifier (even if the library takes steps to protect identity) may creep some people out. 
- The library has a few other datasets in the pipeline, for publishing.

## Anything the State Library could do to support next steps?
- Nothing came to mind immediately. 














