#  ODL Environmental Scan: Quotes

## ND5
Library middle managers were anxious about data being "misinterpreted" -- a common concern among non-library city departments called to publish open data. On the one hand, ND5 said, even good metadata doesn't necessarily provide the interpretation that the library might want -- a dataset might simply show that acquisitions have gone down, without showing that funding had dropped. On the other hand, concerns about misinterpretation can be answered with, "That's what starts a conversation. Respond to what they've misinterpreted. ...Provide context. Sometimes context is storytelling. Sometimes it's, well, maybe you don't have enough open data, and you ought to publish some additional datasets which would [provide context]." The library did not avoid publishing any dataset based on concerns about how the data would make the library look, ND5 said.

## DEMS1
Many localities will only undertake open data to avoid the pain of dealing with public records requests, DEMS1 said. When data is available by default through open data, "Instead of pulling a thousand records over the course of two years for a person, they could just write a letter back and say, 'It is available to you right here. Does that meet your information request?' Check! Done! ...That's the value case. ...[Librarians] can be advocates for that, for sure.''

## DEMS2a on open data connection to the library's mission
"For libraries in general, this projects gets at a lot of the stories we tell about ourselves as a field -- that idea of bringing people into a space and teaching them about what is available to them, telling them about the importance of educating yourself and being a conscientious consumer of information and being able to look at something and determine whether or not the person that produced that information is acting in good faith or not. And obviously we’re in this crazy environment right now with [*laughter*] `truthiness,’ and who is in control of the dialogue, and libraries have always been the supporters of intellectual freedom and the protectors of privacy and people’s right to find out whatever information they want and not have anybody else know about it. …And it furthers libraries beyond just materials and helps us enter that digital sphere a little more. It helps combat [the question], Why do I need a library when I can just Google it? ”"

## DEMS5a
- DEMS5a says it's the library's "responsibility to make their city officials see that value. ...They're not going to come to you, usually. You've got to be your advocate. That's the thing I think I see missing sometimes from libraries. You have to go out there and tell them, and show them."
- LIbraries are "the original open source people," DEMS5a said. "The data that governments collect and create really belongs to the people. Libraries are about literacy and about teaching people how to access information -- not just providing access to it. If the data's not usable, that includes you not knowing how to use it. Traditionally we've done book literacy -- we've taught people how to read, so they can unlock that information that's in a book. [Open data] is just another form of literacy. In order to access that data, in order to make it readable, in order to understand it and use it, you have to have the skillset, that literacy." 
