#  ODL DEMS9 Interview Notes

*DEMS9 is the community technology director at large municipal library (100K-250K people served). Its city and county both have open data portals, and the city and library are collaborating on open data services. The county also has a data portal generated by a separate university/community partners effort. DEMS9 has a long professional history in public access to technology and information.*

## How did the library become involved in the local government's open data efforts?
- DEMS9 started in the position a few years ago, around the same time that the city's new chief technology officer came on board. As the two got to know and trust one another -- having more conversations about what each other's agencies were doing -- open data emerged as a project they could collaborate on.
- This was a huge leap forward for the city and library, which previously never did anything together, DEMS9 said.

## What is the library's role in the open data effort?
- The library has been a partner in spearheading the city's open data launch. 
- The effort is in a holding pattern at the moment, in part because of staffing changes at other city departments and mostly because not all city departments are participating at the same rate. City departments need more time and training to understand the benefits of open data publishing -- not only the value of avoiding unnecessary public records requests (which are high for the city's size), but using data to tell a story. The publishing entities need to believe in the benefits, or they won't generate good-quality data consistently, DEMS9 said.
- The city departments could also use some support on outreach to the public about the data they publish. DEMS9 also sees more room for community conversations about what data the public wants most; the conversation could include key users such as journalists or community activist groups.
- The city is looking for a new data staff member (data architect) to assist with technical matters such as how to store data and standardize formats, as well as another data-related position that will likely be shared between the city and library (subject to negotiation). 
- DEMS9 would ultimately prefer that the library host the open data portal and become "the place for open data," but this is subject to negotiation and further developments.

## What experience and expertise makes the library a reliable partner in this effort? 
- The library is a "friendlier" adviser than someone from the city's IT department, DEMS9 said. The library is all about information, and doesn't have an ulterior motive in advising people about the best information practices, DEMS9 said. 

## Is the library publishing open data about itself now?
- No, but it soon will, with a few projects in development, DEMS9 said. 

## How did the library become involved in Data Equity for Main Street?
- DEMS9 has known Will Saunders for years, and heard about the project from him. 

## What Data Equity activities did the library participate it?
- DEMS9 helped develop the curriculum. 
- Another librarian at the library led the classes for the general public. 
- The library may pursue another round of instruction, but perhaps target particular users (activists, nonprofits etc) and perhaps use an abbreviated format -- the first class on open data basics, for example. 

## What went well about classes? What could have gone better?
- The information in the curriculum is good, and can be tailored to the needs of a particular library or audience.
- Getting people to attend classes is a challenge. The classes had eight attendees -- six who completed all four classes. DEMS9 wonders if more targeted marketing (e.g., to community activist groups) would work better.
- DEMS9 said the public needs to know something about open data before they have next questions about what to do with it. The classes lay a foundation for that. 
- The Data Equity project has fostered productive collaboration among libraries, which is one of the highlights of the project, DEMS9 said. 

## What is the library's ideal role in open data programming? How does this meet the needs of the library's community?
- Open data is part of the library's future, DEMS9 said. 
- For DEMS9's library, the priority is helping the city with its open data publishing. 
- Despite attendance challenges for instruction, DEMS9 believes the library still has a strong role to play in teaching people to use open data. People need some education -- a "little hook" -- as a foundation for having further questions, DEMS9 said. As open data publishing evolves and provides more context and narrative (e.g., publishing an article about the hot public topic of potholes, then providing user-friendly links to data on the righthand side), more people will be interested in open data, DEMS9 said. 
- Key staff should have a grounding in open data, DEMS9 said. For example, the librarian who led public instruction in Data Equity curriculum also is a subject librarian in nonprofit development, and can use open data as a resource for patrons.
- DEMS9 would like to try another round of instruction, perhaps offering just the first class about what open data is, and perhaps to a more targeted audience of nonprofits or other likely users. 
- Libraries have a clear open data role, DEMS9 said. Libraries "definitely need to be at the table. ...Libraries are places of information, places of education. ...We're the ones that can help people and support them and point them in the right directions -- why [open data] is valuable, and how to access it."

## What would help the library take the next step in open data services? 
- Time.

## What might the State Library do to support open data services at public libraries?
- DEMS9 generally agreed with others' suggestions to provide toolkits, guides, best practices and professional development. 



