#  Interview Notes: DEMS2, director and DEMS librarian for city library in Washington 

## Background

DEMS2a is a manager librarian and DEMS lead for a city library serving between 100,000 and 250,000 patrons in Washington State. DEMS2b is the library director, who took over in the past year.  

## How did the library become involved in the city's open data efforts?
- A new mayor took office at the beginning of 2018. The mayor's predecessor had been in office for more than 10 years. The new mayor's priorities included greater public participation and government transparency; city leaders saw open data as a way to advance both priorities.
- The city's information technology director recognized the library's value as an institution that interacts daily with users, and tapped the library to play an advisory role in open-data planning.
- DEMS2b took over as library director in the past year, and connected DEMS participation and the city's interest in open data publishing.
-- A 2017 long-term plan for the city, generated by a citizens group selected by the mayor and city council, also emphasized civic engagement and specifically establishment of open data policies and practices. 
- Meantime the library's previous director had directed DEMS2a to apply to the DEMS program. [*How did previous director learn about DEMS?*] DEMS2a was accepted into DEMS and attended Train-the-Trainer before becoming involved in the city's open data plans.

## What library staff experience/expertise supports open data efforts?
- DEMS2a already had an "entrepreneurial" attitude toward technology and data, and was enthusiastic about learning to use new tools. She was not familiar with open data prior to DEMS training, however.
- The library staff includes a data "wrangler" [who compiles and publishes? the library's own data] and a digital services librarian. The library also houses a local archive, which has undertaken digitization projects. [*Specify digitization projects.*] 
- The library is also used to demonstrating its value with measurable outcomes, so it can advise city departments about how to use open data to do the same. 

## What user groups might especially be interested in open data?
- Business and economic development
- Community leaders and others trying to stem opioid abuse and homelessness in the area. 
- Open data planners are especially focused on providing data that's responsive to citizen concerns and pressing community issues. 
-- DEMS2a posted in DEMS about how to identify promising areas for publshing open data. Will Saunders responded,  ``Many cities publish some or all of the following as sort-of open data: Council meeting schedules, Zoning maps, Bus schedules, Bids and procurements, Commercial properties for rent (also called site selection). But sometimes cities get into it through an issue that residents care about. For example, [in Yakima] irrigation is a key local issue, and the city's open data work started there. Now they are gradually expanding to muni stormwater and wastewater, urban growth area boundaries, etc.  http://opendata.yakimawa.gov/ . What's important to [DEMS2a's city]?"

## What is the library's role in the city's open data program?
- [DEMS2b has been part of an "open data champions" planning committee]
- In July DEMS2b conducted a presentation about open data to city leaders, drawing substantially on material from DEMS, including open data definitions and examples, and the important role of metadata.
- The digital services librarian and DEMS2a recently generated a [map of current city? data publishing, and factors that help or hinder getting data published.] [*Review recording.*]

## What hinders or complicates open data efforts?
- DEMS2a said city departments are anxious about,
-- Additional work 
-- Open data being "misinterpreted"
-- Requests for data that isn't being collected.
- Both city and library staff are hampered by limited time and capacity. [*Review recording for details about ongoing-data management concerns.*] The city is in a budget crisis and has a hiring freeze on, just when senior library staff are retiring.

## What advances open data efforts?
- DEMS2a recently made a presentation to city leaders about open data -- explaining, for example, how metadata helps put data in context and give it meaning. DEMS2a found city leaders more curious and less anxious about open data after the presentation.
- DEMS participation has substantially supported DEMS2a's role in the city's open data planning process. 
- Planners should remember that open data can be fun, not just a tool for addressing intense social issues. DEMS2a noted how users loved an open dataset that identifies where historic trees are planted in state parks. 

## How does open data connect to the library's mission?
- DEMS2a said open data connects to traditional library functions like helping users educate themselves, think critically and exercise intellectual freedom. Open data use is about having the right to know without being tracked. 
- Open data allows the library to demonstrate that its mission extends into the digital sphere, and isn't confined to physical materials. 

## What happens next? What would support next steps?
- DEMS2a wonders if it might be best to conduct DEMS classes first with city leaders, rather than the general public. This might allay anxiety about open data publishing, and build a foundation for outreach to the general public.
- The timing of the DEMS classes is uncertain. The city's open data portal is scheduled to launch in early 2019, but the library would like to conduct classes earlier. 
- City and county government buildings are adjacent to each other. The county currently has no open-data process, but a strong start in the city might lead to one. 
- Since city and library staff time is short, any capacity support from the state would help the open data effort. 
- Ready-to-use marketing materials (e.g., flyers) would be a big time saver.
 





